so a couple of other things uh to just
remember so our coaching program we just
uh
opened up a bunch of slots on monday so
there should be
plenty of slots open for you guys we're
going to open up more slots next week
a lot of people are kind of concerned
about coaching because of issues of fit
or they worry like they're going to
burden people or that they're going to
monopolize time or they're not going to
be able to connect with other people
and so one of the things that i want to
remind you guys is that there's a huge
selection
bias um that
uh comes with our coaching program what
i mean by that is like
you know there aren't like randos in our
coaching program our coaching program is
y'all
it's the same group of people who you
know it's the same group of people who
watch stream
so the goal of coaching and especially
group coaching is to like connect you
guys with each other
and and help you guys work through stuff
together so here's a
uh just a quick testimonial from our
coaching program i really enjoy being
able to talk to someone i don't really
allow myself to talk to people about my
issues
and just lifting the burden is great
right and i think that's kind of like a
good testimonial because i think part of
the problem is that you guys
don't allow yourselves to like
be supported by other people that you
want support but then you pull away
so let's hop in with albert
you're gonna have to forgive me i'm a
little bit flustered today and it's been
chaotic apparently i doxed myself
earlier
and then there's the van that tends to
happen sometimes yeah
um and and you know then i saw my wife
enter the van with a stranger
and then i was a little bit cons
confused so then i just literally got up
and and
ran out to my front yard and left stream
hanging
so i'm gonna need a minute to compose
myself
and maybe we can talk about my feelings
today
does that happen often do you ever get
reverse therapize on your own streams um
no but that's the first time for
everything man
and given what appears to be your vast
technical expertise and
and manual dexterity maybe you can maybe
you know you can help me out for once
yeah you want to see something while you
compose yourself
absolutely man i think that'd be awesome
um
have you seen a lot of magic or anything
of that sort in your lifetime
um sort of but i don't know about a lot
i don't think i've seen a lot i've seen
some
okay um
so this i guess this is more of an
experiment this is not really like a
trick
um so like i've recently been getting
into chess
and it's something that like i
personally enjoy a lot it's just
a lot of people find it anxiety-inducing
i find it kind of relaxing
knowing that like you know everything
that happens is kind of just
between you and someone else and it's
all like within like your own
capabilities and your own control
[Music]
and so there's like different like time
formats you know like there's like
classical which is super
long um and then you have like ultra
bullet which is just like you have a
minute
to just like make all your moves um and
if you run out of time you lose
and so the thing that i'm fascinated
about that is like with
like what the more time you have the
more i guess opportunities you have to
kind of like
think out like the best move but when
you have no time
you're kind of resorting to your your
instincts and like
patterns that you already know and so in
a way if you know someone really
well you can like predict what they're
going to do like when you like shorten
that time or you add a time pressure to
it
and so i've been like really fascinated
with that idea as of late and
um i've been working on something that i
think speaks to that
so if you would indulge me for a second
i'm gonna bring out a giant timer
um yeah
okay and so basically we're going to
create a card um
under some time time constraints and
um i'm just going to ask you two like
binary questions like
uh yes or no type of things or red or
blue that kind of
deal but just to practice i don't want
you to think about your answers you just
say the first thing that comes to mind
so we're going to do some unrelated
things all right
um pirates are ninjas
parts um
let's see so ninjas
how about apples or oranges
apples okay interesting
and then do one more max pc
pc pc all right we're on twitch that
makes sense
okay so
here i'm gonna have a timer and i'm just
gonna ask you a bunch of card related
questions
okay and we're going to need you to use
your imagination for this
okay okay and
ready set go in every deck of cards
there's two types of cards numbers and
pictures what would you like numbers or
pictures
numbers numbers all right so we're going
to
take the numbers and we're going to move
down the deck leaving just the pictures
and um there's the jack the queen and
the king um which one of those would you
like just name one
cake king and then name a suit
spades spades the king of spades
and it took us 24 seconds to generate
that card okay and so
i find it curious that you would end up
on the king of spades so you notice that
this deck
has been sitting here the entire time
right yep and i haven't
touched it at all i haven't gotten near
it
yeah that's correct yep all right so i'm
gonna pick it up for the first time
obviously like normally i would just
hand this to you
um if we were to do this in person
so right now we have two pieces of
information we have the king of spades
and we also have
the time it took to generate that card
the number 24. and so if i count down
24 cards from the top
hopefully if i kind of attuned to your
your wavelength the king of space should
be at the 24th position
okay all right
one two
three four five
6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15
16 17 18 19
20 21 22
this is the 23rd card so hopefully
that's right the 24th card
awesome man
that was really cool thank you
all right do you feel more at ease now
we're ready to
yeah so what was why the pirates apples
and ninjas
or is that i just wanted to like
sometimes it's like hard to
like because there's a timing aspect
sometimes people are not ready to like
answer immediately they'll like think a
little bit so there's just to prime
people
to just say the first thing as soon as
they hear it
so that's really interesting
i'm just trying to think about you know
whether we should do a spoilerina
no no okay no spoilery no
okay but that's really cool i i really
enjoyed your trick albert
thank you honestly i'm impressed because
i can almost duplicate it
the one thing that i can't do is show
the cards face up
that's what i can't figure out so if the
deck is face down i think i could
duplicate your trick
but i don't think i could do it i don't
know how you did it face up
that has me thinking
yeah anyway that that's fantastic dude i
really like it
thank you so is is
it sounds like you spend your time with
creative pursuits
um mostly yeah well i would say
now i'm mostly just someone who
i basically go on youtube i go on reddit
and i find like a video of something
that i'm like wow this is really cool
and i will think to myself i wonder how
one goes about learning this
and then i'll start doing research i'll
watch go down the
youtube rabbit hole watch every video on
something
and then find like the really nice
subcultures and the communities that
surround it and then
try to like immerse myself in it and so
in a way i'm more of like a collector of
hobbies rather than like
an expert at anything trick i just like
knowing how things are done and
kind of like how how far you can push a
skill or
a sk or a knowledge set and
and you say you use the word now so does
that imply that that's
it's changed for you recently i would
say it's something that
i've always held at the back of my mind
like
even like as a kid like i was like
really into a lot of different things
but i was sort of raised in a way where
like it's good to have hobbies it's good
to be well-rounded for college
applications but
like no you can't make a career doing
this you know because that's all it is
it's just a hobby
and so um i guess for the longest time
like i just
didn't think it was like worth putting
in more effort into getting better this
stuff because there wasn't any kind of
financial gain
it's just something that i would do for
myself and
essentially like when things didn't work
out in college and like i didn't end up
going down a traditional path i still
like
like well music um was the thing that i
was studying or ended up switching to in
college
and i'm like well this is kind of
difficult and i don't know if i
know how if i'm ever going to be good
enough to like be
in an orchestra cause i play the violin
and so then i switched over to like
filmmaking and then
eventually it landed in streaming but i
didn't really like know what my niche
wasn't streaming
like i played games but like above
average but not good enough to be
viewed as like a gaming streamer and
like my music
was good but not good enough to be a
music streamer um
i think magic was the one thing that i
kind of stood out
but even i think when you do like any
performance
art related thing on twitch you're
always going to hit a wall where
when you've over saturated your audience
with everything that you can do
then people lose interest because
they've
they've seen every trick you've done you
can only do
so many variations of it before you will
tap yourself dry
there's only finite amount of things
that exist in
the magic resource you know universe
and i guess as of late now i'm like well
if i just
make my passion for learning and like
getting into all these weird things my
hobby like maybe
or like my my job like maybe this is
something that i could see myself doing
you know five ten
twenty years down the line versus like
like only for like a couple years
i see so it's almost like you're you're
taking the
acquisition of new skills and exploring
a new hobby
as your constant mm-hmm yeah
and i think it's something that i've
always done but i never
thought that it could be something that
i could i guess do for a living
that makes sense yeah i mean i think
that sounds really cool because i think
it actually mirrors a lot about
you know what people's experience on the
internet is which is that we get
relatively excited about something and
then we kind of
dig into it for a while and then we sort
of move on to the next thing
um and and that sounds really cool
and uh so albert yeah man that that
sounds cool is there something in
particular you wanted to talk about
today or something that maybe i can help
you with
um
say i like wrote down a bunch of stuff
give me a second i just have like a list
nothing like in particular i feel like a
lot of it
is like i have a fairly
um grounded stance and kind of
where i am position like the whole
uh grand scheme of things but some of it
is just like okay like these things make
me feel bad
and i know why it makes me feel bad but
the solutions don't seem to be like
it's like it's like i'm trying to do the
things that i know i'm supposed to do
but it's like difficult regardless um
so maybe you can help me out with that
yeah i didn't understand
what this sentence meant you said i have
a grounded stance
in the way that i like where i am
like where i exist it's like i know kind
of
like in in i guess like the streaming
world and like the content creation
world like i know where
my position is and all of that um and
it's like i don't have any
so here i'm trying to figure out like
the best way for me to
just try to clarify my sentiment tell me
what your position is
in the streaming world
so as like someone who used to be part
of an online streaming community
and is no longer part of that and is not
likely to be
kind of welcome in that like
um close-knit group of people
um it's like now i'm just trying to kind
of figure out like what i can do
as like a solo entity and then
but what i've been struggling with both
kind of like
business-wise but also like from like a
personal
human fulfillment level is
it's hard to stream when you like
you are the only person like in
like you are the only person responsible
for your content
i think unlike youtube videos where you
have a lot of time to ideate and you
have like
editing and a lot of external things
that you can do to spice up your content
but streaming you're doing long hours
and if you're not
gaming like you're essentially trying to
market your life and like your
interpersonal relationships and that's
like what people
tune into what and that someone who like
doesn't
really have that anymore and also
knowing that there there's a lot of like
people that i would normally want to
reach out to or be friends with that
feel like are cut off to me um
it's been like a struggle trying to
figure out how i can sustain myself
and also kind of dealing with the
loneliness of
being kind of like on my own and doing
my thing
yeah and i think yeah i mean
albert it sounds to me uh
so i just want to comment for a second
about drama
so like we're not really here and i just
want to make it clear to everyone that
we're not here to talk about drama right
that's not
really what i care about and if that's
what people are looking for they can go
look elsewhere
um but what i'm hearing from you is
actually a story of
uh rejection what i'm hearing is a story
of being alone or being part of
something and now no longer being a part
of it
it's almost like i mean when i hear you
talk what i'm envisioning is like a wolf
that's like no longer part of the pack
and and what i'm almost hearing is like
a a sense of like
you know how does the lone wolf survive
um and and it sounds really challenging
for you and you're trying to figure that
out i mean that's that's what i'm kind
of feeling
between the lines and i'm not saying
that from a drama perspective it's just
like that i think that's yeah yeah
you know and yeah i think
that that that's a fair assessment um
and i think it's like particularly
difficult for me because i've always
been a very
extroverted person um even though like
my demeanor is not like the typical
like loud outgoing archetype that you
normally
um think of when you think of like
extrovert but i've always been someone
who
like values friendships and
relationships and having like
being surrounded by people and i think
a lot of my struggles comes with the the
clash of that
sentiment but also feeling like i want
to be somebody as well
at the same time like i want to be
recognized for what i have to offer
and but i'm also you know
but i struggle with wanting to use the
people that i'm
around and making them happy um often at
the cost of my own personal ambitions
and so just to
basically i guess these two ideas always
clash with
one another what do you what do you mean
what do you mean by that that
people you want to make the people
around you happy but at the cost of your
own personal ambition
i'm like the most conflict diverse
person like ever
like if someone wants me to do something
i will do it um even if i don't
necessarily
like if even if it's not good for me or
i don't have the time for it
or i don't have the resources for it
because like i'd rather
see them like succeed and do well and be
happy
then um like do what's best for me in
the moment
and i think i've always thought that
like oh i can do all this
and because like that's just the kind of
person i am and like took pride in being
someone who could like shoulder a lot
um and like as of late you know in the
past year or so i realized like that's
definitely just
not true something that i've told myself
like
it's like a false identity i've given to
myself you know
i think i've i'm just really good at
like repressing and internalizing
feelings like over like long long
periods of time
okay and some of this just stems from
just the way that i've
always dealt with conflict as a child
you know it's just like people won't be
mad i won't be upset if i disagree with
it or do whatever they tell me
and so that's and it's gotten me to like
where i
am to degree right so i'm like if it
didn't if it
if it works you know why stop doing it
i know that's obviously not not a
healthy mindset or
not the way you should approach
everything um but
albert can i think for a second yeah go
for it
so my first thought is boy you've been
doing a lot of thinking haven't you
that's all i've had time to do so
that's all i've had time to do do i
detect a little bit of
frustration in that sentence
um maybe not frustration but just kind
of
acceptance um you know i've had a lot of
time
i took a year cynicism maybe that's the
better
yeah cynical like yep this is this is
just how things are
this is it'd be like this sometimes and
i'm just trying to make the most out of
it
yeah and there's a lot right you've
thought
what are you feeling right now
um at this very moment
um
it's not catharsis i feel like i'm
saying things that i've said
or that i've like thought about and
talked about a lot
um you know privately to a lot of like
close friends and family
so it's not something that i feel like
this is a revelation for me
um i do a lot of journaling so
[Music]
what what am i feeling is neither
it's like very neutral like i don't feel
like it doesn't make me feel
particularly good but i also don't feel
bad for like okay saying this so okay
yeah so sometimes we can perceive
neutral
sometimes it's neutral and sometimes
what we perceive as neutral
is actually something that's more like
bittersweet
right so bittersweet isn't really
neutral but are you feeling neutral or
are you feeling bittersweet
obviously more like bittersweet so
that's what's like feeling from yeah
right there's there's hurt there
but there's also positivity
yeah and and it's interesting but i i i
can't tell if your face is really
neutral or i'm reading into it or
are um it's the lighting
but i actually see a fair amount of
bitterness
just right behind your eyes for lack of
a better term
i take off my glasses will help no leave
them on no i don't think we need to see
it
it's okay all right um
so let me ask you so so albert here's
so first of all i i think you know for
lack of a better term i'm gonna say i'm
i'm impressed or
or maybe excited or um
optimistic some some combination of like
when i see how much you've thought about
things and how you've already started to
piece things together i feel
good about it because i feel like you've
done a lot of the work that i
do like i start doing with people and so
you've already actually done chapter one
and for example you've recognized that
you're conflicted first you've
recognized that you
started to become conflict averse in
childhood you've recognized that that
has worked for you in some ways that
it's
it's an adaptation but that at times
it's become a maladaptation
um and and i actually
have i i think
i know this is going to sound weird but
i i think i have more hope for your
future than you do
which is weird because we haven't really
talked about how much hope for your
future you have
and i think the reason that i have more
hope for your future than you do is that
i think there are some options that feel
close to you which i don't think are
close to you
um and then maybe we'll we'll work our
way there maybe i'm right maybe i'm
wrong i mean
i don't really know but and
and so you know if you want to steer the
conversation you're more than welcome to
if there's a particular thing that you
want to learn how to
you know talk like get over or whatever
that's fine otherwise i i've got
a gigantic pile of questions to ask oh
fire away i'm you know i don't like
talking about myself that much
like first yeah i want to know more
about myself
why don't you like talking about
yourself
um i
i just don't like making things about me
it just feels
i don't think it's my place i don't feel
like people don't care so i don't want
to
like bother them with like inanity of my
life
how long have you felt that way
[Music]
maybe since like middle school
i think yeah can you tell me about
middle school
kind of i'm trying to remember i think
there's like
two things going on here
i think one thing is i think i was
always a very good child
you know like straight a student wasn't
all the extra curriculars i was in
band orchestra tennis team like
your parents must have been very proud
they're very proud but i think
because i did everything well um
there was like my there was like nothing
to criticize me on so like my dad would
end up
criticizing me on like the most like
tiny things like
why don't you capture toothpaste after
you finish brushing your teeth
like can you like i'm very flat-footed
so he's like you know you should think
more about picking up your feet and i'm
getting these huge arguments with my
father like why it doesn't matter am i
doing everything else right
and then um and i think that was the
moment
at least personally aware she's like i i
hated just like getting into yelling
just my dad and i would cry like every
day for i think two years
um and then suddenly just like turned
off where it's just like
i just stopped crying all together for
the next like
15 years um
and then in school i was like
mildly bullied like i don't know like
this could just be my
version of the vents like now that i'm
older i'm like maybe this is not what
actually happened but i just thought
this was and it became like
such a huge part of the narrative of
like who i was as a person but there was
this girl
who's like on the cheerleading team and
you know i was like very
very scrawny not athletic i was like the
like last np
all the time you know and my school was
very athletic i think
had i gone to a more normal school it
wouldn't be this case but i was running
six minute models and i was the slowest
guy in my class as an
as an eighth grader um
and so i had a lot of like
self-conscious umness about
my appearance and my physical ability
and
so there's this girl who would always
just like
who claimed that she like was in love
with me um but was
very iced my perception was she was very
out of my league
and so every day when i would go to
homeroom she would like
hide behind like a door and like jump
out and like hug me
and then it just made me feel very
like that i was i was being made fun of
in a way that i couldn't like
like show or resist because like oh it's
like why are you complaining about this
you know it's like a attractive girl is
like hugging you
and saying she's in love with you but
then she would like call like she would
like
find my phone number and like call my my
phone or
my home phone this is back before i had
a cell phone
and then you know like i had to hear
like laughing in the background so like
i'm pretty sure it was just
to like make me feel uncomfortable and
so
i think at that point like i just never
felt like i was like
um someone that people like want to be
around or it's like i was always
someone that will kind of had in their
groups so that
they could like make fun of
yeah i'm not someone who other people
want to be around
and i think that's partially why like
i felt like the desire to like get into
so many things because i wanted to
provide value whether it's like music
or magic or like any number of things
so what i'm hearing from you is that
you know if you could bring something to
the table then people
then you would be worth caring about
yeah i think that's the case because i
just didn't have any confidence in like
my personality or
you know my
are you okay are you okay just sitting
for a second and just
feeling what you're feeling or do you
want me to distract you
um i'm good i okay i like this pulling
what's this feeling
i think um
i think just being able to share
something that has been bothering me for
a while
so that feels good and what bothers me i
think it's something that i'm
just like being aware of like how much i
like don't like myself
so albert what's it like to be someone
who other people don't want to be around
and to be cut off from the pack
sorry it's heavy yep
i'm gonna start crying in a second
don't a lot of people start crying on
this show do you do do you cry
sympathetically
i mean i cry i don't i don't know
about other people
yeah um it's lonely
for sure
and a lot of it has to do with like
guilt
not feeling like
like i can feel bad about my situation
that makes sense because it's like
self-induced
so
okay albert i need you to i need you to
let me know if you need so
i'm gonna tell you something that we
call coming up for air okay
so you know sometimes we're gonna get
into heavy places
and then um you know if you need to come
up for air you let me know and i'll like
break the tension
so we'll you know is there like a like a
safe word
it's like i need it um i mean so my
standard with usually
uh men is as we uh make a dick joke
okay because usually penises are funny
um okay and and so i guess our our safe
word is going to be dick joke
okay um
but you just you know you let me know i
mean i i can see that you're able to
tolerate some of this and i think we're
making progress but
you know at the same time i um
it doesn't it doesn't have to be
how can i say this i imagine that you
think that you are someone who has to be
able to tolerate
everything right and you can't
you can't come up for air you won't let
yourself come up for air
because not coming up for air is the
right thing to do
yeah right so just notice that like even
that
and and so learn how to forgive yourself
for
not being able to do all this
and so i think maybe i'm gonna have to
use the safe word because i i don't know
if you're gonna
feel
worthy enough to say hey actually this
is too much for me
i think the thing that i struggle with
is
or like regarding this particular
ideas a lot of like the kind of things
i'm
going through right now it's like i feel
like i don't have
like i'm not privy to those
too
it's like i'm not allowed to feel
sadness or
pain towards my own situation why not
because
like i mean because like i'm the one
that
created it right and so it's like you
know
it's like well if you didn't [ __ ] up
then you wouldn't like be in this
situation so like stop complaining
kind of deal yeah
and so like i just and i don't that's
why i don't like talking about it
because i'm like
no one wants to hear someone talk about
like how
you know shitty they feel because of
something that they did to like other
people
yeah what i'm what i'm hearing you say
is that you're not allowed to suffer
because it's your fault
well that's how i feel at least like i
know it's
it's not necessarily like like it
shouldn't be the case you know i think
everyone's how do you know
that where do you say i came from
just things i read my own therapy
sessions it's just like
i think the lived human experience is
imperfect
and we're all going to make mistakes so
if no one's allowed to feel
bad for like anything then that's just a
very sad
experience of being alive yeah so that
sounds philosophically wonderful to me
tell me why doesn't any of that [ __ ]
apply to you
i think a lot of it ties into just like
being like a internet figure
and like having so much of
like what i say or what i feel being
judged through like the lenses of like
thousands of people
you know it's like there's no winning
right it's like if i
if you know if i don't if i'm emotional
then it's like i'm
trying to get sympathy i'm trying to
garner sympathy
and then that's manipulative and if i
like don't emote
and i'm just very like stoic and very
you know like business then you're like
cold then you're cold
and so my solution is i just don't use
it i just
like i i feel like i can't post anything
that isn't like
inherently valuable or good because
people are just gonna like just like me
mommy or [ __ ] on me like
like twist whatever i say into like the
context that they think
you know is like the most hurtful
and so like i know like that stuff hurts
me so i
so i just don't use it i will only just
post
my content and i i will just like not
read any of the comments
and then let's go about my day until i
have something
else to do albert i i totally get that i
think social media i would say amplifies
this
and at the same time i think that you
have been
taking away your capacity to suffer long
before any of these people on the
internet ever showed up
and if we're talking about you know
really moving forward it's about finding
the origin of these things
right what we're talking about is like
how does it feel to be the kid
that all the other and forgive me for
being a little bit racist here let me
know if this is offensive you know that
all the other asian kids hate because
you're the kid that when they
before they go to bed their parents tell
them why can't you be more like albert
yeah and yeah i grew up in fresno so i
was like one of the only asian kids
actually at the time so
so my experience being an indian kid was
that you know
people my parents always compared me to
the other indie and still do
and then and then the thing that's
really bizarre about that is like i'm
like mom what
what more do you want i'm i'm the kid
that all the other parents are comparing
to now like and you're still like
you know i i used to joke that i'm
every indian parent's
dream and every indian kid's nightmare
hmm yeah and i think i was like that
more
generally speaking just like
like on paper i was like i was like the
textbook child
you know um
yeah and so albert
what does it feel like to be the
textbook child and have your dad be
unhappy with you
what is it like not knowing yeah you go
ahead sorry
it's like not knowing what you can do to
be better
um and so it's just like at a loss
and and like i think at the time i felt
like no matter what i did to like
improve like there would just be
something else that was missing
like there's this never-ending
list of things that like why aren't you
like better at this or why aren't you
doing this better and a lot of it wasn't
even like
like at this point it was never about
academics you know because the academics
like
sure before i went to college and where
like i
i realized like that didn't matter as
much as i used to think you know like i
had never
gotten anything below like 100 on
anything
because our school offered a lot of
extra credit for you know
kids who like needed it so like if i got
if i ever got below 100
i would like beat myself up like
not not like in a self-harm kind of way
but more like
yeah emotionally i would like punish
myself
what would you do to yourself
um i don't know like i would sometimes i
would not speak for
like a week because i was so upset
and what what made you upset
um that i like made a mistake
and whose fault is it
and so how did you treat yourself when
you [ __ ] it up
albert you got a 99
yeah just not happy
yeah and it became like a thing where
like then my friends would make fun of
me
for not getting 100 as well you know
like i had
so and well they thought it was good but
it reinforced
like they were doing it jokingly but
then i think for me it reinforced that
idea and so when people on the internet
say things about you what does it do to
you
um i guess it's more like what i know
it'll do to me
because i i really have not read
anything good
go what do you know
um
i think at least from like
so what happens is my my close friends
will like spoon feed me stuff
right they'll they'll be like all right
this is like maybe the worst kind of
thing people are saying this is like
generally people are like saying these
nice things right and then
because i want to know like even if i
don't want to know the specifics i want
to know the general sentiment
but usually the stuff that like hurts
the most are the are not the
like single and like [ __ ] you or go die
like those ones
i know it takes a certain kind of person
to like be in a place in their lives
where
like they can type that to like a random
nobody that they don't know
right it's like that stuff doesn't
bother me at all it's like the
people who are writing like long essays
trying to like
cycle analyze me from like the comfort
of their own homes
and i think sometimes like there's a
glimpse of truth and like that stuff
hurts
or the other ones where it's like i know
it's like just
straight up false but it sounds
convincing enough that i feel like i'm
being misinterpreted
and i think i have this deep fear not of
like owning up to my mistakes
but being misunderstood or like
like not not feeling like people have
the wrong impression of me
um but believing that to be the case and
but i know there's nothing i can do or
say to like convince them otherwise
it's just like a futile battle where did
you learn that convincing people
who had the wrong impression of you was
futile
um i'm trying to think about it in my
actual day-to-day life but the internet
i just feel like
that's just the general sentiment where
like if people are determined to hate
you
like no matter what you put out what you
say they're going to feel that way until
something in their own life shifts
i mean it sounds to me like you're
talking about your dad again
you know not to overly psychoanalyze you
because i hate doing that [ __ ] right
because i'm i'm just envisioning like
you know like who did you feel you are
who did you try to be and what did your
dad see
right he just refuses to see
like not just straight a's hundreds
across the board baby
and then he chooses to pick a fight i
mean it's just
it's so misunderstood it's so
disconnected
it's so judged and then i'd i'd say that
some
somewhere in there your dad would also
say things if i had to hypothesize i
mean i don't mean to say this is all
about your dad but like
i mean come on you know like yeah
whatever yeah i mean i'd say a lot of
things
like probably like you knew 90 of what
he was saying was like wrong and like
you knew you're like dad what
it's just a [ __ ] toothpaste gap
right yeah and you would tell yourself
that 90 of the time
but then 10 of the time he'd say
something that would stick
right and and over time what i'm i'm
just i'm just thinking like what is
what happens to a 13 year old kid who
like
can never do right
right can never do enough what does that
kid start to think about himself
what does he start to believe about
himself
and yeah go ahead
i don't know i thought you were about to
say one more thing
yeah so i mean i i think he says what
you say
that in order for people to like in
order for me to bring
value to the table it needs to be some
something super concrete
that like it has to be something that no
one can refute because like
like who i am is like not enough
right and i i'd say i'm just envisioning
you know if we really want to try to tie
things together
yeah in in a overly simplistic
and probably unfair way it's going to be
like i mean
i don't know man like you know when we
talk about these phrases like
self-esteem
and confidence in who you are and
and accepting yourself for who you are
and and i'm also i'm just going to keep
going and you can cut me off at any
point
and then i also think a little bit about
you know the things that you tell
yourself and what you've learned to tell
yourself
which is that if you do everything right
and it's your fault
it sure as hell is going to be if you
don't get any forgiveness when you do
anything right
why on earth would you get any
forgiveness if you do even an iota of
something wrong
if you get a 99 you're not happy with
the 100 or maybe you are happy or maybe
your dad's not happy but if there's a 99
like
[ __ ] that you don't deserve a break
and so with whatever happened like it's
your fault so like you don't deserve a
break you don't deserve forgiveness
and then we also get to this this
feeling of being trapped right where
like you're
you're like i you know i can't win this
game
i can't win if i show emotion
they say i'm being manipulative
and if i don't show emotion they say i'm
being cold
you strike me as a guy or kid who just
can't win no matter what you do
it's really hard to
believe that you can't win
to try to convince yourself that you can
find some kind of
niche that you can
kind of like come back
that if you try hard enough to show
other people that like
you know if you work really really hard
and you can
you can sort of overcome like that core
sense of like
rot and decay about like who you are
and that's hard man it's a hard way to
live life
so despite being so [ __ ] pessimistic
with my imagery
the reason i'm hopeful for you albert is
because i think you actually
are wrong i think you're not rotten okay
so
and i think you have value and i think
that for a long time you
like there haven't and it sounds like
you've had people around you try to
teach you that but
i i fundamentally don't think that
you know i just don't think you're a
piece of [ __ ]
i think the reason that you heard
giggling in the background when that
girl called you
is because her friends put her up to it
and she's like if you like him call him
and then she calls you and then her
friends are giggling in the background
because
she's calling you i don't think it's an
elaborate
you know joke that they're making fun of
you
i think that's what teenage girls do
when they put their friends up to
calling their crushes
you know i i wouldn't know though i
never got one of those phone calls
anyway i came up for air there yeah at
the end
i can tell you yeah appreciate it
i'm also doing some of the lifting you
can pick it up
all right um i'm at the pen or the
conversation either one
but yeah what's interview meant which
one you're talking about
i have oh you've got a backup okay one
this is a knife
yeah but it's not a real knife so
yeah i i just feel like i just i just
need to fidget with stuff because i have
so much anxiety
you're super impossible and there's a
certain level of satisfaction of being
proficient with
like seeing progress like when you work
at something and then like sure
either see the progress or you can feel
it
yeah and so i i'm very like like
that's something that's always i've been
drawn to that
yeah so if you want to get super
analytical there right there's two kinds
of
progress there there's one is that like
there's a certain satisfaction over
mastery and then there's also the sense
that like
if i can see myself getting better i
don't
have to look at my intrinsic lack of
value
because you see here's my external value
like i can do this and now i can do this
and now i can do this and it's just an
emphasis
on positive feeling from the external
world
and a sense of mastery that other people
can't deny that you yourself can't deny
i think it's a bit of both i think so
too
do you wanna i know you were about to
say something and then
you let me continue so i don't know if
you wanna share anything or
i'm trying to see if there's any like
engine points
or like further things because like
because you mentioned in the beginning
that it sounds like a story about
rejection
um and like i think a lot of or the way
that i've perceived a lot of my life is
just like a series of rejections
and a lot of both like personally
but also like objectively not getting to
the college that i wanted or
you know like having like a lot of um
like putting myself out there and like
like for crutches whatever and like
being rejected
or job opportunities
so i think i focus a lot on those as
like kind of
as kind of like defining moments in my
life rather than kind of
maybe the things i have accomplished and
like i know this to be the case but
it's like my brain just goes there
so am i hearing the question of what do
i do about that
no it's just more like
well
you know i don't i don't know
tell us yeah
sorry go ahead i just feel like a lot of
the things i think about her is like i
know this is how i feel
so now like how do i like kind of
reprogram
what i'm like how am i trying to
approach all these things so that i
don't
do well on it so much great that's a
that's a fantastic question
um so i think
so once you have one of these like core
beliefs about yourself
right i think i think your rejection
sensitivity comes because
so albert what i see is within you
there's a war
between
what you know
shouldn't be true and what you believe
about yourself
right like you can look at your life and
when you're tranquil and you're
level-headed you can say i've
accomplished a lot
i'm a good person you know i support a
lot of people
i'm a good friend i'm allowed to make
mistakes
and then inside there's also like this
kind of fear this belief that you carry
around that you're none of those things
that you're a cause for suffering for
people around you
that you don't have value that all you
bring is unhappiness
and there's this kind of war and then
sometimes what happens is like something
happens in your life
and i think what's been going on is like
the positive part of you has been
winning
and then the negative part of you when
something happens the negative part of
you is like see
see i told you i told you all along
that's not who i am
and so how what do you do with that
right what do you do when you start to
when you have that voice inside you that
tells you that
um you know that you're not worth it and
that you're not a good person
and that unless you bring something
concrete to the table unless you
can make people smile or laugh with
magic tricks
that you're not worth being around
how do you deal with that it's a good
question
so i'm going to give you kind of like a
two or three part answer and it's going
to be a little bit academic
okay the first is that yeah
say safe territory uses our mind not our
heart
so the first thing is that each of these
emotional insults is an
unprocessed trauma or something that i
would call a some scar
so some scar is like something that is
like an
undigested emotion that then goes
dormant into your unconscious mind
and over time builds up like basically
what happened is that
you know for two years you said every
day you used to cry and
to a certain degree you were starting to
process those emotions
but i don't think that there was anyone
there who could sustain
the positive albert during those times
and so each one of those moments each
one of those conversations
you kind of built up this like
portal that would spawn like negative
thoughts and feelings
and so the problem right now is that
you've got that portal in your
unconscious and it spawns these thoughts
right like literally if you look at the
way the nature that the mind works
it's like you're going about your day
and it's like literally something just
spawns in your mind
right it's weird it's like a it's like a
bubble machine that's just like
generating
these like thoughts about you and and so
you can kind of acknowledge that you
shouldn't have those thoughts but
i mean that that machine is in there
that belief is in there and as long as
that belief is there it's going to start
generating these thoughts
so the question is okay what do you do
about it one way is through emotional
processing
so that's like doing something like
therapy where you go and you talk about
these things and you cry and then like
when you cry you feel a little bit
better
the main thing is that the some scar
gets digested a little bit gets digested
digested digestive digest
and if you do that work for a while one
day you'll kind of be free from it
so that's kind of like a psychological
approach a therapy approach
the other thing that i'd say which i
think is going to terrify the [ __ ] out
of you is that i think that there's like
a spiritual or karmic approach
and i think what that means is like
actually going and and
you know like having conversations with
people that you've wronged
recognizing that like although you're a
wolf who's been cut from the pack
there is a certain peace that comes from
resolving that and what i mean by
resolving that is like going and like
having conversations with people and if
you want to be a part
of that group again if you miss that
group
you know if if you've if you've made a
if there's a rupture
between you and someone that you care
about you try to
you try to fix that now fixing it
doesn't mean
practically like rejoining something or
doesn't i'm not talking about business
what i'm talking about is like a karmic
debt right
of like going back and and trying to
like make things right with people and i
think there's an
immense amount of strength and then also
acknowledging that like and this is the
thing is
until you try that you're carrying it
and if someone says [ __ ] you i never
want to see you again
you can at least be a little bit calm
with yourself that like you tried right
and if they if they don't want to
forgive you and and that's
like totally fine but like you [ __ ] up
and i tried to make it up to you
and if you don't want me to make it up
to you that's entirely your choice and i
can respect that
but i can also respect myself a little
bit because i tried to fix it
you know and i think this is where
frankly i mean i think this is like
where
honestly sometimes i kind of differ from
my colleagues because
the thing about therapy is they tell you
i mean i'm i'm
about to dis therapy but i think it's
sort of true
you know what we're taught is therapists
what we're trained to do as therapists
is to work in the room right we're going
to come and we're going to talk about
your feelings but you never have to
really do anything
outside of the room that's the whole
scope of therapy
and there's a part of me that says that
like ultimately
you have to do things outside of that
room you have to do more than
emotionally process you have to take
action
i think we leave something really
important
behind when we don't try to take action
and i'd say
albert if you've made a mistake in your
life it's not about whether you get to
feel or whatever it's about like trying
to [ __ ] fix it man
right and you have to give it your all
to try to fix it i don't know if you
have
i don't know you know
you're laughing so i'm i'm guessing
you've got an answer for me there
um i think i've done as much as i could
like like in a reasonable way so
it's like i think i've already done that
um
and so so now it's like now that i know
like the position
about how things are it's like now i'm
trying to just deal with like
moving forward as like myself that makes
sense
sure yeah it wasn't like i
i like stopped talking to everyone and
just like all right
like i tried having those like
conversations
um and then you know it's just like kind
of like
this is just how it's going to be and
then
and then to like live our separate lives
kind of deal
yeah so so do you feel at peace with
that
um
i think it's more like it's like the
bittersweet thing right
where it's um and also it's like this is
given time right like i i don't know if
like you're supposed to revisit these
things like you know like
there's like a protocol for like okay
after this amount of time we should
maybe revisit this topic again
these people um but it's the kind of
thing where it's like i've just been
trying to
like like knowing kind of the general
state of things
kind of being okay like making new
connections and trying to
not be so tied up with i guess past
relationships
and try to like make new ones that i
know like
at least there is more of a risk
reciprocity
in terms of like kind of the um
i guess emotional labor and kind of time
spent
and like i know it's not like obviously
didn't feel great for me but i
also knew like this is their choice this
is their decision
and like i'm not going to be one to try
and pose my own
will on other people because like i know
because i want it
so yeah so you made a comment early in
the interview
albert that actually made me think that
like you said something like there are
things that you want to say or people
that you would want to reach out to
but that you don't something along those
lines
and and does that do you remember that
or does that ring a bell or do you and
so what keeps you from reaching out
um well one is fear
others rejection or both
rejection um
and also like also the fear of being
misunderstood
you know it's like i'm reaching out what
for what
means or what purpose am i doing this is
it because
i'm trying to like build my business
am i trying to you know like work my way
back into certain parts of like
certain communities it's just like i i
just feel like unless someone reaches
out to me
then like any action that i have like
reaching out to someone else is going to
be
viewed like in like the most negative
light and i don't know
that true but that's just like my fear
and like i'd rather not risk it
um for something like that and what does
reaching out
look like it's like
it's like hey wanna hang out or it's
been a while
love to catch up or if it's someone that
i i don't know it's just
kind of kind of there's there's some
people that i would want to like
other content creators and that's kind
of how i've always operated in the past
as well
it's like if i think what someone's
doing is really cool or
what they do is really like i feel like
connected to like their work
or whatever they do as their jobs like i
want to reach out like i want to
see we can be friends um
and so a lot of like i have a lot of
fear
that like people don't want to talk to
me because
because i myself don't offer enough as
like an individual
as aura as like a content creator as an
influencer that the risk
of potentially like being on the bad
side of other people
is going to supercede the immediate
value that i give
so it's like if someone finds out like
they've been talking to me or they're
working with me
and then it's like okay maybe these
people like it's not like i don't think
anyone would be like no you can't work
with this guy
but it might kind of i guess in a
business
or in a scene that is so
largely based off of your relationships
and like
good vibes towards people and like
vouching for people you think are cool
it's like any and like how hard it is to
even like break in
um in the first place
i think a lot of people just wouldn't
want to take that risk
especially since i'm like much smaller
so
and there's like so i have a lot of fear
regarding that
it's like i don't want to hurt other
people's chances by like either reaching
out to them or
like having them work with me so i just
don't unless they reach out first
and there's there's been some people who
reached out and i'm
very grateful for it but even then it's
like it can never be in any meaningful
public way
because of you know just like how it'll
look or like it might be disrespectful
for
certain like two certain people and like
i understand that and i acknowledge that
and you know it's like i would love to
like talk to them more
or like spend time with them but i know
it's just like not a
it's not a possibility given the current
circumstances
and so there's a lot of kind of
bittersweet feelings towards that as
well
where it's like i feel like i can't i
can't be i can't ask for more
you know like having some people talk to
me is better than no one
so it seems to me like talking about
this is actually more comfortable
for you
i think i thought about this more so
maybe that's why
so i i think there are a couple of
reasons for that one is it
sounds like you've thought about it more
the second is that i think this is more
from the present
whereas a lot of the heavy emotion i
think is like some scars from the past
right these are like
thoughts and beliefs like i'm not
someone who other people want to be
around
like i think you've felt that way for a
long time
and so what happens is like when the
things that are heavy from the present
day
are the ones that reinforce that belief
from the past does that make sense
whereas this you know sounds like there
really is a business side to this
that that you really you know and i
think the really tricky thing about this
is that i think that that business side
is like you know seems really legitimate
legitimate to me but i also see you
your kind of emotional
shackles holding you back from making
progress here
and what i mean by that is that you know
i think it's
like like it sounds like you kind of
said earlier that you put other people
first
you know and you always felt like other
people are more important than you are
and so what you're doing is you're even
the risk that you could potentially
taint someone's career
keeps you from taking a shot at doing
something that you find like
fulfilling and and happy
and and if we really think about it
that's that's really
kind of very caring and also kind of
shooting yourself in the foot
right which is what you were saying and
i think some of this stuff has to do
like you said with your fear of
rejection
and and i'm curious what would that
rejection look like i mean what do you
imagine
would happen um
well it's also happened like actually i
i did try it like a couple of times
and then do you feel comfortable sharing
that i
find myself being really curious what
that actually looks like
i mean it's not like a um basically like
i asked someone like
hey can i hang out and then they're like
let me check
um and then there but there's bases like
oh they're not comfortable with this
then
i'm like okay that's and then that was
that
and then i kind of there was like
similar like
things on like a similar vein um and so
it was never like it was never like very
dramatic it was just like
you know it's like feeling is there
and so people just want to respect okay
and how do you feel about how do you
understand
their choice
it's like
i think when you're like because i'm
trying to think about it from like their
perspective right
it's like i'm no longer like the friend
that they're closer to
so it doesn't make sense to kind of
do something that you know that your
your closer friend is gonna
um or like people that you're close to
are going to be more hurt by
than to like kind of
extend that like kind of hand of
like empathy or compassion in that
moment
and especially if like people have
doubts about like my character or like
who i am as a person
right and it's like i don't know like
maybe this guy is just trying to weasel
his way back into like being successful
or
part of something
that sounds tough man
so i'm just trying to stay in my lane
just do my thing it's kind of like
where i've been at or i've been telling
myself but obviously it's hard
and it's like i've been alone for so
long that i kind of like forgotten
like what it's like to be lonely
[Music]
i remember in the beginning it was like
the feelings of like
isolation were like way more intense and
then covet happened and then
kind of everyone else was feeling what i
was feeling but at that point i was so
acclimated to it that i'm like
my life is no different well
postpandemic and
like during the pandemic why do you
why do you try to stay in your lane
because i feel like
like i just don't want to stir up
trouble for people you know it's like i
know
like i don't like i've only been
streaming or i've been like making
content for like a month now
a month and a half it's like i haven't
proven myself to like kind of
be better or
so until like i feel like i've
seems to me like you want to feel worthy
again
what's it like to feel unworthy
so
foreign
not great for that's for sure
just like i have like earned it
you know yep
and until i do that like i don't have
the right
to kind of like ask for anything
so i'm just gonna think for a second
about what do we what do we do about
that
what is that shrug when i asked that
question
and i don't know
i think albert the real the real
challenge here is that
the real challenge real real challenge
is that that i honestly think that your
road forward
is not alone
and i i think here's you know we do this
to ourselves sometimes where we think
like
you know i'm gonna face the rest of the
world once i know i'm worth it
right once i know i'm ready it's kind of
like
you know i'm gonna take the sat or like
you know i'm once i know i'm gonna like
get a good score i'm gonna practice
really hard i'm gonna stay in my lane
i'm gonna fix myself and then i will
unleash myself upon the world
i'll re-enter once i know that i'm gonna
be
like okay right once people once i have
something to bring to the table
there's a lot of there's a lot of what i
would call paralytic security there
there's a lot of like idea that like you
know once i do this
then i can feel safe to go out and and
then i can approach people because
i i bring something to the table people
can care about me and people can want me
and and i really do have some value
and i gotta stay in my lane until i get
to that point
the reason i call it paralytic security
is because i i think it's paralyzing
because i i think that unfortunately
like your road forward
that's certainly one way to do it right
and i'm i'm not saying that's
the only way to do it but i mean there's
a part of me that says that
you know you got to fix what's broken
and
and what i'm hearing over and over and
over again is like is not that
you're going to teach yourself that you
have value
like what you've missed and what's
missing in your life
is not your own perception of your value
it's
other people giving you value and that's
the damnedest thing that's the really
really hard thing is that sometimes in
life you know we always think that like
we always think that healing is
something that i can do
right i can heal myself i can go to
therapy i can talk about my emotions and
stuff like that but
i mean i hate to say it man but
sometimes in life the fastest way to get
better is actually like
depends on other people and it can be
incredibly terrifying
to roll that those dice
right and i think that the something
tells me that if if you can
i think you have to a certain degree but
if you can keep on
actually showing them
because here's you have to show them
your imperfect self
and you have to give them a chance to
accept that because here's the problem
is that if you stay in your lane and you
assure yourself that you bring value to
the table
and then you show it to them and they
accept you what are they accepting
they're accepting the magic tricks
they're not accepting you
right and this is what's really got you
stuck is that you figured out this
solution
you figured out this thing that if i do
something that other people can't refuse
then they'll accept me but that's where
you shoot yourself in the foot because
then
the only thing you're truly doing is
reinforcing that
they're not accepting you
they're accepting the rubik's cube or
the magic trick
or the whatever right and so bizarrely
what it does is it reinforces the idea
that you're not worth it
and the real antidote to that is to to
show people
the half-formed thing right to show
people the incomplete thing
to show people the vulnerable thing to
show people yourself
which you're terrified that they're not
going to accept
the magic is that when you show people
those things
and they do accept you
then it's gonna be really really
confusing and really really difficult
because you're just gonna be like what
the [ __ ] like i don't understand why
this person is showing me value i mean
we saw it with your you know that girl
who was in love with you you're like i
don't understand
what this person can possibly see in me
and that's exactly what you need to
encounter over and over and over again
right you need to be just really [ __ ]
confused that people think that you're
you have value as a person
that you have value out outside of
making them
feel better and putting them first
you need a lot of confusion in in terms
of like
like why are these people hanging out
with me i don't do anything from them
i'm small
why do they care about me i don't
deserve to be cared for
and there's a part of me that honestly
says that's your road forward i mean
like
it's hard it's gonna require courage on
a level that i don't know if you've ever
found in yourself or realize that you
have but i think it's in there
i think i think it's it's buried but i
don't think you realize that you have it
i don't think you realize that
that you are a strong person and you
don't need to prove that to anyone
i think you your strength built up
each day of those two years that you
cried on a daily basis
and it's in there right because you kind
of survived and to
even extent you thrived and then you
made mistakes
and not to say that you shouldn't accept
responsibility but i think it's probably
worthwhile
also thinking about and learning to
forgive yourself
for why you made those mistakes and we
haven't really talked about that and i
don't know if we're going to because
that skirts a little bit
close to drama but if i had to venture
we don't even need to talk about i can
toss out a couple hypotheses
that's certain that sometimes we do
things to not disappoint other people
and did you make mistakes that were sort
of egotistical sure
but i you know i'd bet money that that
sprinkled in there
and and i think that ultimately like i
don't know if you've forgiven yourself
but like that too
is an important path that you have to
walk which is going to be hard and
unfamiliar because i don't know
you know so we learn from what people
show us
and i don't know if other people have
shown you forgiveness so i don't know
how you're going to learn how to do it
yourself
and ultimately i mean i hate to say this
but like
you know someone who works with people
who are suicidal and things like that on
a daily basis what i can tell you is
that
you know expecting someone who's
suicidal and hopeless
to find that on their own is [ __ ]
ridiculous
and so where do you get the idea that
you can walk this journey on your own
and i think that's what's so [ __ ]
hard is like
staying in your lane like you can
certainly get there don't get me wrong
like you can do a lot of introspection a
lot
of therapy i think you're well on that
road but there's a part of me that says
that
you know the fast track here is going to
be actually like with other people
that even if you feel you know if you
fear that rejection
that reaching out to other people and
saying hey i've thought about this a lot
i'd love it if we could reconnect
you know and being authentic and honest
with them and and also i think you do a
good job of this it sounds like you're
pretty respectful of their boundaries if
they say
i'm not comfortable with that so that's
good right
but to still share with people that like
you know i don't know if you've told
someone
that you miss them
right and and you want to be clear about
not trying to guilt-trip people into
like seeing you and things like that but
like
but there are ways to have these
conversations but i think if you miss
someone
you should tell them
you know i grow up in a tradition that
says that unless you fix this in this
life it's going to carry with you like
you carry it
you know all actions have an equal and
opposite reaction
all actions have consequences and what i
see in your life albert more than
anything else
is work that's left half done
say that's fair
that's questions
i guess maybe more fears
good very good
i mean there's also like a question
right it's like
i think i maybe made a sound sound like
like i have like no friends but i mean i
have i have
um like a decent support system you know
even now
um it's just like i think maybe what i
miss most is having like a centralized
friend group which i realize now is
less of them is less normal than i
used to think i guess i think a lot of
people
work nine to five jobs and then you have
like friends that you like
connect with but you don't like see them
every day and like that's like normal
existence and i think that's why
communities on twitch of like streamers
are very like attracted to
viewers because
because it's kind of like what you wish
you had in your own life
there's like this kind of parasocial
relationship
and this kind of living vicarially
through other people
and i think having like tasted that it's
like
you know feels good to be part of
something
um but they're it's not necessarily like
the right
like i don't know if it's necessarily
necessary either to like
want to go back like to living that kind
of life
because i think there's definitely to a
degree feeling like
my like like my relationships with
people
were like the product that i was selling
and i think there's a lot of confusion
there
like involving like like am i friends
with this person or is it because
our friendship like gets us a lot of
social validation
and like i definitely feel
like at some points that that was hard
to like differentiate
whereas like you know i know like the
kind of
friendships i have now with people are
like because of like everything that's
happened like i know this person's here
like showing up for me because you know
that
you know they're not here for like like
the video like the filmmaker
the musician the magician whatever um
so like that's something that i think
about a lot as well
where it's like how am i happy to hear
that
and a lot of like the feelings i have
too are
like do i miss like
is it the idea of loss and the feeling
that i need to fix something
the reason why it feels bad or is it
because i genuinely like
need this to be a part of my life
so yeah i haven't figured i figured that
out yet
those are all wonderful questions albert
it makes me hopeful for you actually
i mean the one one thing that i would
say and maybe we can kind of segue to
meditation in a few minutes but
um you know i'd say that i think these
are conversations that you should at
least try to have
and it sounds like you actually do have
people around you that
help you feel valued outside of your
performances which is wonderful
and so so if that's the case then then i
think it's it's really about settling
your karmic debts it's about
you know i i i mean there are a couple
of things here the first is that
i think a lot of what holds us back is
like not
fixing the past and fixing the past
doesn't mean returning to it it means
like not addressing it
right like owning up to what you did and
like like acknowledging things and
and sort of letting things kind of like
like letting your own mind kind of
process it
giving other people a chance to process
it even if that means
sending anger and frustration and hurt
your way which you should absolutely
receive from them and
and you know take it from them and then
and then let it go because like then
they're gonna be done they're not
holding on to it
you've done your job you can let it go
it's gonna be hard
the second thing is that ultimately i
think albert what you need to learn is
like
you know your road to value can come
from
your new friends and things like that
can come from therapy and reflection but
it can also come from
facing your own fears and surviving them
right what you need now more than
anything else i think is courage
and and and you're not going to
recognize entirely who you are
until you face that fear and even if
they reject you
i i think my hope is that there would be
peace around that
that you can kind of say like hey like
you know telling people
how you feel and like telling people
like hey you know i really valued this
it was really awesome to have
this opportunity and and i'm grateful
for it and
you know i miss this and then kind of
acknowledging like
you know i don't want you guys to feel
guilty i really don't
um and if anything i i i would hope that
we could
really just like have one last
conversation and put it behind us
not trying to get back in um
and and also whatever i've had
conversations already
and how did they go pretty much
like it was it was all amicable it was
just kind of like
yeah so in a way it's like i'm more
dealing with
now that i know and it's like living
with it
kind of deal living with water
just like like you know like i try my
best but just like because of like
the trauma and the damage i've done it's
just like it's never going to be
like truly healed and so like living
with that guilt
and interesting
so when you say it's never truly going
to be healed what is healed look like to
you
know
like for me like i like when i even just
go on
the platform like twitch it's like
like i i could never stream like i can
never go onto the twitch page because
there's too much stuff that like
i guess like reminds me of thing and
like
so i just and i'm sure
like it goes both ways right i'm sure
people
like not a lot of people feel good about
like seeing stuff about me or
whatever and
yeah albert i i think it sounds like
you've done a lot of it but i don't
i don't think you're done man okay i
mean
just just something about the way that
you're describing things like so
so i'm i'm very happy i mean happy's a
weird
i'm i feel reassured that you've had
some of these conversations i think it's
absolutely the right step to take
and what i'm also hearing is that like
the wound is still open
and i don't know what that conversation
looks like but i
you know maybe it isn't a conversation
maybe it's more on your end but like it
sounds to me like you've done a lot of
work
on your own in the last year and i don't
know
when you had those conversations
but you know sometimes it's worth
revisiting
a conversation especially if it's open
like sometimes one conversation and i
don't know i'm not assuming you just had
one
but you know sometimes it takes a lot of
conversations
to put things behind you
and i
i don't know i mean do you feel like
you've been forgiven by the people that
you've hurt
i think what i
i think these are two separate things
like what i've been told
like directly and like what i perceive
to be the sentiment are two different
things
okay so let's acknowledge for a moment
that like you don't
deserve forgiveness okay so what i mean
by that is like i think this is a really
common misconception but
forgiveness is something that the
aggrieved party gets to give
or not give you're not entitled to it
and even moving past that i know it
sounds kind of weird but even if you
never get forgiven i think that's okay
as long as you know that it's never
gonna happen and that this person is
like then you can still move past it you
can say
you know i [ __ ] up in a way that's
going to be irreparable for the rest of
my life so be it let me accept it and
let me move on
i think never being forgiven is okay
being forgiven
is better but the hard thing is being in
that middle space where you don't really
know
right and and there's a part of me i
mean like really
albert it's i mean it sounds like you're
holding on to a lot of this stuff
and some of it you know maybe i'm just
focusing on this i don't know why
but um
you know there's a part of me that you
know i think it kind of comes back from
this like image from the beginning of
like you're a wolf that's been
cut from the pack and it's
it's hard to be in that position
and doing everything that you can to get
back in even if it hurts and i don't
mean like get back in from a business
standpoint i mean like
you know reach a place of emotional
peace
and then sort of recognizing that like
you know i can't be a part of this pack
but at least i sort of know that and
we're like
okay with that and the pack is gonna
continue and i'm gonna go find a new one
like there's peace there
you know you don't have to get back
together with
your ex or anything like that like all
the rom-coms right like you guys can
agree that like
divorces can be amicable and things like
that where it's like
hey we tried it for a while you know it
was challenging but like i'm gonna live
my life and you're gonna live yours
and we can appreciate what we had
together and and we can kind of like
acknowledge that it wasn't great
and that like we're better off on our
own i don't get the sense that you have
closure
i guess that's the the word that i'm
sniffing around for hunting around for
what do you think
i guess people usually you know get that
closure being like a one-time thing
where it's like you talk about
everything and then
it gets sort of feathered
but i think it's just with the
nature of time it's like it's like
like i don't know have things changed um
from the last conversation because i
think from that perspective
like there was closure with people i had
talked to
um you know given like the circumstances
of that time
and so maybe it's like the uncertainty
or like
like not knowing like you know like
i have feelings changed has the general
sentiment atmosphere
so i'd steer that in a slightly
different direction what i'd say is okay
like
now i'll kind of just wrap up this point
we can talk about you know whatever you
want to after this or you can ask
questions but
here's what i'm feeling i'm feeling that
like so you're right that closure is not
a one-time thing
right so if you think about let's say
grief right so
about nine years ago my dad passed away
and then like i felt grief
and then you know but like i revisit
that grief
periodically and i sort of get closure
around my relationship with him
at like periodic intervals and it
happens like a little bit more intensely
after someone passes away but i i just
had
a feeling that i hadn't had in a couple
years which is that i really missed him
the reason that i really missed him is
that i was listening to a podcast that i
think he would have really enjoyed
and so i think part of what i'm what i'm
kind of pushing you towards albert and
you know be careful when i push you
because i usually am wrong
is that that like there's there's a
there's a different kind of conversation
that you can have now
after your year of reflection you know
you're in a different place there in a
different place
and i think that there's a second
opportunity for closure
and there's also like if they're not
interested in that that's okay that's
even
that's a closure in and of itself like
for other people to be like hey you know
i'm not
i'm just not interested in revisiting
that part of my life at least you know
that and then like you can be like okay
like that's
it's over now but there's something just
that feels
karmically open to me about this
um i don't know if that
resonates with you or not that makes
sense
you have any thoughts or questions
i feel like i've been pushing the
conversation in a particular direction
for the last half hour
that's fine i'm i'm always interested in
like seeing what someone else thinks
about yeah
all right i i don't have any questions
about it that's okay that's totally fine
like
like i know this is a very real
possibility and like a very
real course of action so like
i feel like if
you know maybe a time and place for it
and i just don't know when that
yeah i think albert from what i'm
hearing it sounds like you're actually
making a lot of good progress
i think it's great that you found people
who can appreciate that you don't have
to perform for
and what happened emotionally just now
what
something happened no no i don't think
so
okay maybe i just can't read your face
um
and yeah i mean i think
you know keep at it i think it's it's
worthwhile to think a little bit about
some of these things that you said
um you know about sort of these
adaptations that you have which actually
can hold you back in some ways i think
you've done a lot of good
self-reflection sounds like you're
working with a therapist or you did work
with a therapist so
you know that's really good i'd
encourage you to continue
last thing that i'll leave you with is
whether you want to learn how to
meditate
or whether you i don't know you hot
i've been doing it i used to look like
guided asian abs
nothing fancy it's like 10 minutes a day
kind of deal
and how do you feel about that
well like part of me like i'm not even
sure if i'm doing it right
like some of it is just like you
like i just feel good after doing it you
know more kind of
for me it helps put a lot of things in
perspective just like
you know this life
and i just want to make the most of it
and
that like your feelings and thoughts
it's like never the situation that
causes you unhappiness it's like how
you like your feelings and thoughts
towards it right and meditation kind of
helps me
take a step back and view like you know
the situation more you know from an
outsider's perspective
being like you know like this is
bothering me so much because
of like how i'm like feeling or thinking
about it
um not that the situation itself is like
harming
anyone like at the moment
yeah that's a pretty important insight
and when you say you're not sure if
you're doing it right
what do you think doing it right like i
i've seen like a lot of sentiments where
there's like this
like wave of people just doing
meditation because it's like
like like the pop like the cool thing to
do and then like you just do it just to
do it and say you're doing it
and but like it's more of a performative
theater thing rather than
like actually digging in and trying to
learn more about yourself while you're
meditating
and so like i'm not sure if i'm like
which camp i've fallen yet
because there's like no good metrics of
like you know
i'm really in my stride when i'm
meditating
uh versus just being consistent do you
have thoughts when you meditate
um try not to
try to exist
but it's hard like i just in the
beginning was very hard
to just like not think about anything
yeah i feel like it actually opposite
where it's just like now i'm like racing
my mind's just racing
um okay it's slowing down recently
if meditation could change one thing
about your life what would you want to
change
i just want to be
you
there my headphones died
hmm
all right
so
hey this one
i just want to wake up and be happy that
i'm
and not feel like i have to
fight to prove that
you know that i'm here
well whatever that takes to be at peace
with that
okay
hmm
so i'm gonna
ask you to do something okay i want you
to sit up straight
this is gonna be a two-parter two-parter
in the sense that once you do this for a
while
um i'm gonna teach you so this
meditation technique has to be taught
in at least two parts okay so i'm going
to teach you part one
and then down the road dm me or whatever
if you do it if you do this if you do
this like consistently for like three or
four months
just let me know and i'll i'll dm you i
can teach you the second part in five
minutes
but i want you to i'm gonna
say something so it's gonna be a piece
of a mantra
but i want you to focus on i'm going to
teach you one piece of it today
i want you to focus on the generation of
sound and feeling in your body you play
music
violin you said do you sing
not really okay great um
so i want you to focus on the sound that
it creates okay and and focus on it
in your in your body
so that what i want you to do is chant
[Music]
okay so close your eyes and focus on the
sound generation
and you can be loud about it okay
next string
[Music]
um
okay less emphasis on the m and more
emphasis on the first half
[Music]
um
now tell me what you feel when you chant
that
feel kind of a reverberation
kind of here okay and then kind of sound
generation
of the sound like here and it kind of
goes
from here um
okay so i'm going to give you a little
bit of direction that's great
so focus on the vibration and what i
really want you to do is
notice where the vibration starts from
and where it ends
okay so practice again do like nine
rounds
[Music]
from
what do you notice about where it starts
and where it ends
[Music]
it feels pretty similar okay maybe not
here but like yeah it's like it's like
from here down to here
okay how does it feel to do it
[Music]
kind of relaxing but also requires like
a degree of focus
or at least okay i'm doing it
okay sure so i'm going to teach you one
more practice
okay i'm going to teach you how to do
ohm chanting
so om is composed of three syllables
ah and
okay it's a little bit
so you're basically going from a
completely open mouth to a completely
closed mouth
so i'll demonstrate
got it so we'll do one round together
deep breath
in
[Music]
okay
all right did you feel that
yeah we're gonna do five rounds together
okay or five let's do seven breaths
together okay so we're gonna do
let's do five rounds together and what i
want you to do after the fifth i can't
hear you anymore did something happen oh
yeah i'm sorry
i was on i switched to push to talk so
what i want you to do is on
on um we're gonna do five rounds
together
and when we finish i want you to sit in
the silence
after the fifth round and just keep your
eyes closed for about 60 seconds i'll
prompt you when it's time to
come back okay
okay okay so deep breath in
again
[Music]
ah
deep breath in
[Music]
oh
[Laughter]
[Music]
last one maximal power
[Laughter]
oh
so
when you're ready go ahead and come on
back
how do you feel feel good
um what were you thinking about
when we were doing the practice
during the whole thing or just like in
the silence either one just what was
your experience of it
um generally speaking like
having something to do like focuses a
lot of my thoughts on
like that action i'm like not really
thinking
about stuff it's like
yeah focusing on your breathing cases on
tone projection
so yeah so so that's the goal
okay so like so the first thing to
understand about meditation is that
the practice is about focusing so if you
really
think about it technically as your focus
becomes one pointed you don't have
thoughts
if you are observing where a vibration
exists within your body
that is not actually thinking it's
observation
so thoughts are like discrete entities
that come and go
right let me think like oh i'm a smart
person i'm a stupid person whatever
that's like a thought so it starts with
focus
and then as you practice over time
as you focus on one thing then your mind
will sort of melt away
and then that period of mindlessness
which is bizarre because everyone talks
about mindfulness it's not about
mindfulness it's about mindlessness
it's about being free of mind will
linger into the period of silence
the other interesting thing is that for
you especially i think feeling the
reverberations
of the second half of the i mean like
there's chanting and then there's
silence which is like
kind of an echo of the sound i don't
know if any of that makes sense
but i think really sitting in that place
is going to teach you
[Music]
that what you are
is fine and what i hear is that every
day when you wake up
what you are is not fine and if we think
about what that feeling of not fine is
it comes with a lot of thoughts
it comes with a lot of like not
accepting like this core
sense of who you are the ways in which
you are not fine have to do with your
actions and your worth
and other people and all of these things
outside of you
they're all about the ripples you judge
yourself based on the ripples that you
cause in life
whereas like those ripples are created
by all kinds of things but at the core
is you and you actually don't make any
ripples
it's all of your like psychological
complexes and some scars and your
emotions and your attachments
that's what creates ripples you don't
create anything
and so the more that you begin to sit
with like just the quiet version of
yourself you'll begin to realize that
like
all this other crap is not really who
you are
but you literally need to spend time
with yourself in silence
one last thing i want oh yeah the last
thing that i want to say albert is that
the other thing that you need is
should be so should be means cleansing
what i get from you is that you're
polluted by a lot of your thoughts a lot
of your actions
you hold on to things that make you not
be able to see who you are
and we need to cleanse you of that so
the last thing that i'm going to do and
i've tried to avoid doing this on stream
because it has a religious connotation
to it
are you religious i am not
okay i'm gonna send you something called
a kirtan
so kirtan is a religious hindu song
so it's like it's like pakti oriented so
it's like about as hindu as
you can get and at the same time i've
been struggling with this for a long
time
in terms of how can you take the value
of kirtan which is
essentially purification and like
remove the religion from it and i
haven't been able to figure it out so
the last thing that i'm going to do is
i'm going to send you a link to a song
it's about 12 minutes long and what i
want you to do is listen to it
every day for seven days and if you
if it doesn't feel good to do that at
the end of day seven
then just stop doing it but if you feel
some degree of peace or
like cleaner after you listen to it
then by all means continue and then like
let me know and then we'll send you some
additional stuff i really try to avoid
this because it's like
you know it has a it has a religious
recommendation it's not you're not going
to understand the words
you're not going to understand any of
this [ __ ] it's in a language you're not
going to know
you know it's not like worshiping
anything really
there's just a very purifying aspect to
girtham like in the
hindu tradition they sort of say that
doing this sort of stuff will clean you
out
um and it's not you don't have to
believe in anything
you know you're not signing up to be
anything it's just like purifying vibes
and i'm just curious it may help you and
if it doesn't no big deal
all right i'm i'm always down to try new
things so okay
so i'll send it to you okay
anyway any last thoughts or questions
before we wrap up
i mean no not really i mean i'm just
happy to be here talk to another person
so yeah man i'm i'm really glad you came
on and
and albert man i feel for you bro you
know i i don't think you deserve
what you live with on a day-to-day basis
and and i really hope that
this conversation and maybe some of the
things that i recommended help you
not have to carry around what you carry
around every day
you deserve some of it but not all of it
sound good i'm good
take care take care of yourself okay
well dude adios thank you